<!-- Generated from https://ola.hallengren.com/sql-server-backup.html - do not edit this file directly. -->

# SQL Server Backup

This documentation is generated from [ola.hallengren.com/sql-server-backup.html](https://ola.hallengren.com/sql-server-backup.html), which is the primary source.

DatabaseBackup is the SQL Server Maintenance Solution’s stored procedure for backing up databases. DatabaseBackup is supported on SQL Server 2017, SQL Server 2019, SQL Server 2022, SQL Server 2025, and Azure SQL Managed Instance.

## Download

Download [MaintenanceSolution.sql](/MaintenanceSolution.sql). This script creates all the objects and jobs that you need. You can also [download](https://github.com/olahallengren/sql-server-maintenance-solution) the objects as separate scripts. The SQL Server Maintenance Solution is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/olahallengren/sql-server-maintenance-solution).

## License

The SQL Server Maintenance Solution is [free](/LICENSE).

## Parameters

### Databases

Select databases. The keywords SYSTEM_DATABASES, USER_DATABASES, ALL_DATABASES, and AVAILABILITY_GROUP_DATABASES are supported. The hyphen character (-) is used to exclude databases, and the percent character (%) is used for wildcard selection. All of these operations can be combined by using the comma (,).

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| SYSTEM_DATABASES | All system databases (master, msdb, and model) |
| USER_DATABASES | All user databases |
| ALL_DATABASES | All databases |
| AVAILABILITY_GROUP_DATABASES | All databases in availability groups |
| USER_DATABASES, -AVAILABILITY_GROUP_DATABASES | All user databases that are not in availability groups |
| Db1 | The database Db1 |
| Db1, Db2 | The databases Db1 and Db2 |
| USER_DATABASES, -Db1 | All user databases except Db1 |
| %Db% | All databases that have “Db” in the name |
| %Db%, -Db1 | All databases that have “Db” in the name except Db1 |
| ALL_DATABASES, -%Db% | All databases that do not have “Db” in the name |

### Directory

Specify backup root directories, which can be local directories or network shares. If you specify multiple directories, then the backup files are striped evenly across the directories. Specify multiple directories by using the comma (,). If no directory is specified, then the SQL Server default backup directory is used.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | Back up to the SQL Server default backup directory. This is the default. |
| C:\\Backup | Back up to the directory C:\\Backup. |
| C:\\Backup, D:\\Backup | Back up to the directories C:\\Backup and D:\\Backup. |
| \\\\Server1\\Backup | Back up to the network share \\\\Server1\\Backup. |
| \\\\Server1\\Backup, \\\\Server2\\Backup | Back up to the network shares \\\\Server1\\Backup and \\\\Server2\\Backup. |
| NUL | Back up to NUL. |

DatabaseBackup creates a directory structure with server name, instance name, database name, and backup type under the backup root directory. If the database is part of an availability group, then cluster name and availability group name are used instead of server name and instance name.

### BackupType

Specify the type of backup: full, differential, or transaction log.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| FULL | Full backup |
| DIFF | Differential backup |
| LOG | Transaction log backup |

DatabaseBackup uses the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command: BACKUP DATABASE for the full backup, BACKUP DATABASE WITH DIFFERENTIAL for the differential backup, and BACKUP LOG for the transaction log backup.

### Verify

Verify the backup.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Verify the backup. |
| N | Do not verify the backup. This is the default. |

The Verify option in DatabaseBackup uses the SQL Server [RESTORE VERIFYONLY](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/restore-statements-verifyonly-transact-sql) command.

### CleanupTime

Specify the time, in hours, after which the backup files are deleted. If no time is specified, then no backup files are deleted.

DatabaseBackup has a check to verify that transaction log backups that are newer than the most recent full or differential backup are not deleted.

### CleanupMode

Specify whether old backup files should be deleted before or after the backup has been performed.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| BEFORE_BACKUP | Delete old backup files before the backup has been performed. |
| AFTER_BACKUP | Delete old backup files after the backup and verification have been performed. If the backup or verify fails, then no backup files are deleted. This is the default. |

### Compress

Compress the backup. If no value is specified, then the backup compression default in sys.configurations is used.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | Use the backup compression default in sys.configurations. This is the default. |
| Y | Compress the backup. |
| N | Do not compress the backup. |

The Compress option in DatabaseBackup uses the COMPRESSION and NO_COMPRESSION options in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### CompressionAlgorithm

Specify the backup compression algorithm.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | Use the backup compression algorithm in sys.configurations. This is the default. |
| MS_XPRESS | SQL Server backup compression |
| QAT_DEFLATE | Intel QuickAssist Technology (QAT) backup compression |
| ZSTD | Zstandard backup compression |

The CompressionAlgorithm option in DatabaseBackup uses the COMPRESSION ... ALGORITHM option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### CompressionLevel

Specify the backup compression level.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| LOW | Low |
| MEDIUM | Medium |
| HIGH | High |

The CompressionLevel option in DatabaseBackup uses the COMPRESSION ... LEVEL option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### CopyOnly

Perform a copy-only backup.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Perform a copy-only backup. |
| N | Perform a normal backup. This is the default. |

The CopyOnly option in DatabaseBackup uses the COPY_ONLY option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### ChangeBackupType

Change the backup type if a differential or transaction-log backup cannot be performed.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Change the backup type if a backup cannot be performed. |
| N | Skip the backup if a backup cannot be performed. This is the default. |

DatabaseBackup checks differential_base_lsn in [sys.master_files](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-master-files-transact-sql) to determine whether a differential backup can be performed. If a differential backup is not possible, then the database is skipped by default. Alternatively, you can set ChangeBackupType to Y to have a full backup performed instead.

DatabaseBackup checks last_log_backup_lsn in [sys.database_recovery_status](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-database-recovery-status-transact-sql) to determine whether a transaction log backup in full or bulk-logged recovery model can be performed. If a transaction log backup is not possible, then the database is skipped by default. Alternatively, you can set ChangeBackupType to Y to have a differential or full backup performed instead.

### BackupSoftware

Specify third-party backup software; otherwise, SQL Server native backup is performed.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | SQL Server native backup (the default) |
| DATA_DOMAIN_BOOST | [Dell EMC Data Domain Boost](https://www.dell.com/en-us/shop/storage-servers-and-networking-for-business/sf/powerprotect-data-domain) |
| LITESPEED | [Quest LiteSpeed for SQL Server](https://www.quest.com/products/litespeed-for-sql-server) |
| SQLBACKUP | [Red Gate SQL Backup Pro](https://www.red-gate.com/products/sql-backup/) |
| SQLSAFE | [Idera SQL Safe Backup](https://www.idera.com/products/sql-safe-backup/) |

### Checksum

Enable backup checksums.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | Use the checksum default in sys.configurations. This is the default. |
| Y | Enable backup checksums. |
| N | Do not enable backup checksums. |

The Checksum option in DatabaseBackup uses the CHECKSUM option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### BlockSize

Specify the physical blocksize in bytes.

The BlockSize option in DatabaseBackup uses the BLOCKSIZE option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### BufferCount

Specify the number of I/O buffers to be used for the backup operation.

The BufferCount option in DatabaseBackup uses the BUFFERCOUNT option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### MaxTransferSize

Specify the largest unit of transfer, in bytes, to be used between SQL Server and the backup media.

The MaxTransferSize option in DatabaseBackup uses the MAXTRANSFERSIZE option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### NumberOfFiles

Specify the number of backup files. The default is the number of backup directories and the maximum is 64 files.

### MinBackupSizeForMultipleFiles

Specify a minimum backup size in MB for when DatabaseBackup should back up to multiple files.

### MaxFileSize

Specify a maximum backup file size in MB. DatabaseBackup will dynamically calculate the number of backup files.

### CompressionLevelNumeric

Set the LiteSpeed, Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, or Idera SQL Safe Backup compression level.

In LiteSpeed, the compression levels 0 to 8 are supported. In Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, levels 0 to 4 are supported, and in Idera SQL Safe Backup, levels 1 to 4 are supported.

### Description

Enter a description for the backup.

The Description option in DatabaseBackup uses the DESCRIPTION option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### BackupSetName

Enter a name for the backup set.

The BackupSetName option in DatabaseBackup uses the NAME option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### Threads

Specify the LiteSpeed, Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, or Idera SQL Safe Backup number of threads. The maximum number of threads is 32.

### Throttle

Specify the LiteSpeed maximum CPU usage, as a percentage.

### Encrypt

Encrypt the backup.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Encrypt the backup. |
| N | Do not encrypt the backup. This is the default. |

The Encrypt option in DatabaseBackup uses the ENCRYPTION option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### EncryptionAlgorithm

Specify the type of encryption.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | No encryption (the default) |
| RC2_40 | RC2 40-bit encryption (LiteSpeed) |
| RC2_56 | RC2 56-bit encryption (LiteSpeed) |
| RC2_112 | RC2 112-bit encryption (LiteSpeed) |
| RC2_128 | RC2 128-bit encryption (LiteSpeed) |
| TRIPLE_DES_3KEY | Triple DES encryption (SQL Server native encryption or LiteSpeed) |
| RC4_128 | RC4 128-bit encryption (LiteSpeed) |
| AES_128 | AES 128-bit encryption (SQL Server native encryption, LiteSpeed, Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, or Idera SQL Safe Backup) |
| AES_192 | AES 192-bit encryption (SQL Server native encryption or LiteSpeed) |
| AES_256 | AES 256-bit encryption (SQL Server native encryption, LiteSpeed, Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, or Idera SQL Safe Backup) |

The EncryptionAlgorithm option in DatabaseBackup uses the ENCRYPTION and ALGORITHM options in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### ServerCertificate

Server certificate that is used to encrypt the backup.

The ServerCertificate option in DatabaseBackup uses the ENCRYPTION and SERVER CERTIFICATE options in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### ServerAsymmetricKey

Asymmetric key that is used to encrypt the backup.

The ServerAsymmetricKey option in DatabaseBackup uses the ENCRYPTION and SERVER ASYMMETRIC KEY options in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### EncryptionKey

Key that is used to encrypt the backup. This is used with LiteSpeed, Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, and Idera SQL Safe Backup.

### ReadWriteFileGroups

Perform a backup of the primary filegroup and any read/write filegroups.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Perform a backup of the primary filegroup and any read/write filegroups. |
| N | Perform a normal backup. This is the default. |

The ReadWriteFileGroups option in DatabaseBackup uses the READ_WRITE_FILEGROUPS option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### OverrideBackupPreference

Override the backup preference for availability groups. This option only applies to copy-only full backups and regular transaction log backups.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Override the backup preference for availability groups. |
| N | Do not override the backup preference for availability groups. This is the default. |

### NoRecovery

Perform a backup of the tail of the log and leave the database in the RESTORING state.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Perform a backup of the tail of the log. |
| N | Perform a normal backup. This is the default. |

The NoRecovery option in DatabaseBackup uses the NORECOVERY option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### URL

Specify the URL for backup to Azure Blob Storage.

The URL option in DatabaseBackup uses the URL option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### Credential

Specify a CREDENTIAL for backup to Azure Blob Storage.

The Credential option in DatabaseBackup uses the CREDENTIAL option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### MirrorDirectory

Specify one or more directories to perform a mirrored backup.

The MirrorDirectory option in DatabaseBackup uses the MIRROR TO option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### MirrorCleanupTime

Specify the time, in hours, after which the backup files are deleted in the mirror directories. If no time is specified, then no backup files are deleted.

By default, backup files are deleted after each database is backed up and verified. Backup files are deleted only if the backup and verification of the database were successful.

DatabaseBackup has a check to verify that transaction log backups that are newer than the most recent full or differential backup are not deleted. This is to guarantee that you can always perform a point-in-time restore.

### MirrorCleanupMode

Specify whether old backup files in the mirror directory should be deleted before or after the backup has been performed.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| BEFORE_BACKUP | Delete old backup files before the backup has been performed. |
| AFTER_BACKUP | Delete old backup files after the backup has been performed. This is the default. |

### MirrorURL

Specify the URL for a mirrored backup to Azure Blob Storage.

The MirrorURL option in DatabaseBackup uses the MIRROR TO URL option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### AvailabilityGroups

Select availability groups. The keyword ALL_AVAILABILITY_GROUPS is supported. The hyphen character (-) is used to exclude availability groups, and the percent character (%) is used for wildcard selection. All of these operations can be combined by using the comma (,).

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ALL_AVAILABILITY_GROUPS | All availability groups |
| AG1 | The availability group AG1 |
| AG1, AG2 | The availability groups AG1 and AG2 |
| ALL_AVAILABILITY_GROUPS, -AG1 | All availability groups except AG1 |
| %AG% | All availability groups that have “AG” in the name |
| %AG%, -AG1 | All availability groups that have “AG” in the name except AG1 |
| ALL_AVAILABILITY_GROUPS, -%AG% | All availability groups that do not have “AG” in the name |

### Updateability

Select READ_ONLY/READ_WRITE databases.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ALL | READ_ONLY and READ_WRITE databases. This is the default. |
| READ_ONLY | READ_ONLY databases |
| READ_WRITE | READ_WRITE databases |

is_read_only in [sys.databases](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-databases-transact-sql) is used to check if a database is READ_ONLY or READ_WRITE.

### AdaptiveCompression

Automatically select the optimal compression level based on CPU usage or disk I/O. This option is only available for LiteSpeed.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| SIZE | Optimize the backup compression for size. |
| SPEED | Optimize the backup compression for speed. |

### MinModificationLevel

Specify a percentage for when a differential backup will be changed to a full backup. This option can only be used together with @ChangeBackupType = 'Y'.

DatabaseBackup checks allocated_extent_page_count and modified_extent_page_count in [sys.dm_db_file_space_usage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-db-file-space-usage-transact-sql) to calculate how much of a database has been modified.

### MinDatabaseSizeForDifferentialBackup

Specify the minimum database size for when a differential backup will be performed. If this parameter is used with @ChangeBackupType = 'Y', the backup type will be changed to a full backup for databases smaller than this size.

DatabaseBackup checks allocated_extent_page_count in [sys.dm_db_file_space_usage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-db-file-space-usage-transact-sql) to get the size of the database.

### MinLogSizeSinceLastLogBackup

Specify a minimum size (MB) for the amount of log that has been generated since the last log backup. This option can only be used together with @MinTimeSinceLastLogBackup.

DatabaseBackup checks log_since_last_log_backup_mb in [sys.dm_db_log_stats](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-db-log-stats-transact-sql) to determine how much log has been generated since the last log backup.

If the database is participating in an availability group as a secondary replica, the log will be backed up, regardless of this parameter.

### MinTimeSinceLastLogBackup

Specify a minimum time, in seconds, since the last log backup. This option can only be used together with @MinLogSizeSinceLastLogBackup.

DatabaseBackup checks log_backup_time in [sys.dm_db_log_stats](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-views/sys-dm-db-log-stats-transact-sql) to determine when the transaction log was last backed up.

If the database is participating in an availability group as a secondary replica, the log will be backed up, regardless of this parameter.

### DataDomainBoostHost

Specify the name of the Data Domain server.

### DataDomainBoostUser

Specify the name of the Data Domain user.

### DataDomainBoostDevicePath

Specify the name and the path of the Data Domain storage unit.

### DataDomainBoostLockboxPath

Specify the folder that contains the Data Domain lockbox file.

### DataDomainBoostNoOutputTable

Specify whether the output table from emc_run_backup is returned.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | The output table from emc_run_backup is not returned. |
| N | The output table from emc_run_backup is returned. This is the default. |

### DirectoryStructure

Specify the backup sub-directory structure for databases that are not in an availability group.

You can use the following tokens:

| Token | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ServerName | Server name |
| InstanceName | Instance name |
| ServiceName | Service name |
| DatabaseName | Database name |
| BackupType | Backup type |
| Partial | PARTIAL for partial backups |
| CopyOnly | COPY_ONLY for copy-only backups |
| Description | Backup description |
| BackupSetName | Backup set name |
| MajorVersion | Major version |
| MinorVersion | Minor version |
| DirectorySeparator | The directory separator |

Default directory structure: {ServerName}${InstanceName}{DirectorySeparator}{DatabaseName}{DirectorySeparator}{BackupType}\_{Partial}\_{CopyOnly}

Tokens that do not apply will be removed. For example, the token {CopyOnly} (and the associated \_) will be removed if it is not a copy-only backup.

If the parameter is set to NULL, no sub-directories will be created.

### AvailabilityGroupDirectoryStructure

Specify the backup sub-directory structure for databases that are in an availability group.

You can use the following tokens:

| Token | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ServerName | Server name |
| InstanceName | Instance name |
| ServiceName | Service name |
| ClusterName | Cluster name |
| AvailabilityGroupName | Availability group name |
| DatabaseName | Database name |
| BackupType | Backup type |
| Partial | PARTIAL for partial backups |
| CopyOnly | COPY_ONLY for copy-only backups |
| Description | Backup description |
| BackupSetName | Backup set name |
| MajorVersion | Major version |
| MinorVersion | Minor version |
| DirectorySeparator | The directory separator |

Default directory structure: {ClusterName}${AvailabilityGroupName}{DirectorySeparator}{DatabaseName}{DirectorySeparator}{BackupType}\_{Partial}\_{CopyOnly}

Tokens that do not apply will be removed. For example, the token {CopyOnly} (and the associated \_) will be removed if it is not a copy-only backup.

If the parameter is set to NULL, no sub-directories will be created.

### DirectoryStructureCase

Specify the case of the directory structure.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | Original case |
| LOWER | Lower case |
| UPPER | Upper case |

### FileName

Specify the file name for databases that are not in an availability group.

You can use the following tokens:

| Token | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ServerName | Server name |
| InstanceName | Instance name |
| ServiceName | Service name |
| DatabaseName | Database name |
| BackupType | Backup type |
| Partial | PARTIAL for partial backups |
| CopyOnly | COPY_ONLY for copy-only backups |
| Description | Backup description |
| BackupSetName | Backup set name |
| Year | Year |
| Month | Month |
| Day | Day |
| Week | Week |
| Weekday | Weekday |
| Hour | Hour |
| Minute | Minute |
| Second | Second |
| Millisecond | Millisecond |
| Microsecond | Microsecond |
| FileNumber | The file number when you are backing up to multiple files |
| NumberOfFiles | The number of files when you are backing up to multiple files |
| FileExtension | The file extension |
| MajorVersion | Major version |
| MinorVersion | Minor version |

Default file name: {ServerName}${InstanceName}\_{DatabaseName}\_{BackupType}\_{Partial}\_{CopyOnly}\_{Year}{Month}{Day}\_{Hour}{Minute}{Second}\_{FileNumber}.{FileExtension}

Tokens that do not apply will be removed. For example, the token {CopyOnly} (and the associated \_) will be removed if it is not a copy-only backup.

### AvailabilityGroupFileName

Specify the file name for databases that are in an availability group.

You can use the following tokens:

| Token | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ServerName | Server name |
| InstanceName | Instance name |
| ServiceName | Service name |
| ClusterName | Cluster name |
| AvailabilityGroupName | Availability group name |
| DatabaseName | Database name |
| BackupType | Backup type |
| Partial | PARTIAL for partial backups |
| CopyOnly | COPY_ONLY for copy-only backups |
| Description | Backup description |
| BackupSetName | Backup set name |
| Year | Year |
| Month | Month |
| Day | Day |
| Week | Week |
| Weekday | Weekday |
| Hour | Hour |
| Minute | Minute |
| Second | Second |
| Millisecond | Millisecond |
| Microsecond | Microsecond |
| FileNumber | The file number when you are backing up to multiple files |
| NumberOfFiles | The number of files when you are backing up to multiple files |
| FileExtension | The file extension |
| MajorVersion | Major version |
| MinorVersion | Minor version |

Default file name: {ClusterName}${AvailabilityGroupName}\_{DatabaseName}\_{BackupType}\_{Partial}\_{CopyOnly}\_{Year}{Month}{Day}\_{Hour}{Minute}{Second}\_{FileNumber}.{FileExtension}

Tokens that do not apply will be removed. For example, the token {CopyOnly} (and the associated \_) will be removed if it is not a copy-only backup.

### FileNameCase

Specify the case of the file name.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | Original case |
| LOWER | Lower case |
| UPPER | Upper case |

### TokenTimezone

Specify the time zone for the tokens in the directory structure and file name.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| LOCAL | Local time zone |
| UTC | UTC time zone |

### FileExtensionFull

Specify the file extension for full backups.

By default "bak" is used for SQL Server native backups, "bak" is used for LiteSpeed, "sqb" is used for Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, and "safe" is used for Idera SQL Safe Backup.

### FileExtensionDiff

Specify the file extension for differential backups.

By default "bak" is used for SQL Server native backups, "bak" is used for LiteSpeed, "sqb" is used for Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, and "safe" is used for Idera SQL Safe Backup.

### FileExtensionLog

Specify the file extension for log backups.

By default "trn" is used for SQL Server native backups, "trn" is used for LiteSpeed, "sqb" is used for Red Gate SQL Backup Pro, and "safe" is used for Idera SQL Safe Backup.

### Init

Specify whether the backup file should be overwritten.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Overwrite the backup file. |
| N | Append the backup to the backup file. This is the default. |

The Init option in DatabaseBackup uses the INIT option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### Format

Specify whether a new media header should be created.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Create a new media header. |
| N | Preserve the existing media header. This is the default. |

The Format option in DatabaseBackup uses the FORMAT option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### ObjectLevelRecoveryMap

Generate a map file during a backup for Object Level Recovery. This option is only supported in LiteSpeed.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Generate a map file. |
| N | Do not generate a map file. This is the default. |

### ExcludeLogShippedFromLogBackup

Exclude databases configured for log shipping from log backups.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Exclude databases configured for log shipping from log backups. This is the default. |
| N | Do not exclude databases configured for log shipping from log backups. |

### ExcludeSeedingFromLogBackup

Exclude databases from log backups while they are being seeded.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Exclude databases from log backups while they are being seeded. |
| N | Do not exclude databases from log backups while they are being seeded. This is the default. |

DatabaseBackup checks [sys.dm_hadr_physical_seeding_stats](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-dynamic-management-objects/sys-dm-hadr-physical-seeding-stats) to determine whether the database is being seeded.

### DirectoryCheck

Check if the backup root directory exists.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Check if the backup root directory exists. This is the default. |
| N | Do not check if the backup root directory exists. |

### BackupOptions

Options for backup to AWS S3 storage.

The BackupOptions option in DatabaseBackup uses the BACKUP_OPTIONS option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### Stats

Display the percentage completion of the backup operation.

The Stats option in DatabaseBackup uses the STATS option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### ExpireDate

Specify when the backup set for this backup can be overwritten.

The ExpireDate option in DatabaseBackup uses the EXPIREDATE option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### RetainDays

Specify the number of days that must elapse before this backup media set can be overwritten.

The RetainDays option in DatabaseBackup uses the RETAINDAYS option in the SQL Server [BACKUP](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/backup-transact-sql) command.

### AllowNonCopyOnlyBackupsOnForwarder

Specify whether non-copy-only backups should be allowed on the distributed availability group forwarder.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Non-copy-only backups are allowed on the distributed availability group forwarder. |
| N | Non-copy-only backups are not allowed on the distributed availability group forwarder. This is the default. |

### StringDelimiter

Specify the string delimiter. By default, the string delimiter is the comma.

### DatabaseOrder

Specify the database order.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| NULL | The order in which the databases have been specified. Then ascending by the database name. This is the default. |
| DATABASE_NAME_ASC | Ascending by the database name |
| DATABASE_NAME_DESC | Descending by the database name |
| DATABASE_SIZE_ASC | Ascending by the database size |
| DATABASE_SIZE_DESC | Descending by the database size |
| LOG_SIZE_SINCE_LAST_LOG_BACKUP_ASC | Ascending by log_since_last_log_backup_mb in sys.dm_db_log_stats |
| LOG_SIZE_SINCE_LAST_LOG_BACKUP_DESC | Descending by log_since_last_log_backup_mb in sys.dm_db_log_stats |

### DatabasesInParallel

Process databases in parallel.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Process databases in parallel. |
| N | Process databases one at a time. This is the default. |

You can process databases in parallel by creating multiple jobs with the same parameters, and adding the parameter @DatabasesInParallel = 'Y'.

### LogToTable

Log commands to the table dbo.CommandLog.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Log commands to the table. |
| N | Do not log commands to the table. This is the default. |

### Execute

Execute commands. By default, the commands are executed normally. If this parameter is set to N, then the commands are printed only.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Y | Execute commands. This is the default. |
| N | Only print commands. |

## Examples

### A. Back up all user databases, using checksums and compression; verify the backup; and delete old backup files

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Verify = 'Y',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Checksum = 'Y',
@CleanupTime = 24
```

### B. Back up all user databases to a network share, and verify the backup

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = '\\Server1\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Verify = 'Y'
```

### C. Back up all user databases across four network shares, and verify the backup

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = '\\Server1\Backup, \\Server2\Backup, \\Server3\Backup, \\Server4\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Verify = 'Y',
@NumberOfFiles = 4
```

### D. Back up all user databases to 64 files, using checksums and compression and setting the buffer count and the maximum transfer size

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Checksum = 'Y',
@BufferCount = 50,
@MaxTransferSize = 4194304,
@NumberOfFiles = 64
```

### E. Back up all user databases to Azure Blob Storage, using compression

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@URL = 'https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer',
@Credential = 'MyCredential',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Verify = 'Y'
```

### F. Back up all user databases to S3 storage, using compression

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@URL = 's3://myaccount.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/mybucket',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Verify = 'Y',
@MaxTransferSize = 20971520,
@BackupOptions = '{"s3": {"region":"us-east-1"}}'
```

### G. Back up the transaction log of all user databases, using the option to change the backup type if a log backup cannot be performed

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'LOG',
@ChangeBackupType = 'Y'
```

### H. Back up all user databases, using compression, encryption, and a server certificate

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Encrypt = 'Y',
@EncryptionAlgorithm = 'AES_256',
@ServerCertificate = 'MyCertificate'
```

### I. Back up all user databases, using compression, encryption, and LiteSpeed, and limiting the CPU usage to 10 percent

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@BackupSoftware = 'LITESPEED',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Encrypt = 'Y',
@EncryptionAlgorithm = 'AES_256',
@EncryptionKey = 'MyPassword',
@Throttle = 10
```

### J. Back up all user databases, using compression, encryption, and Red Gate SQL Backup Pro

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@BackupSoftware = 'SQLBACKUP',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Encrypt = 'Y',
@EncryptionAlgorithm = 'AES_256',
@EncryptionKey = 'MyPassword'
```

### K. Back up all user databases, using compression, encryption, and Idera SQL Safe Backup

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@BackupSoftware = 'SQLSAFE',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Encrypt = 'Y',
@EncryptionAlgorithm = 'AES_256',
@EncryptionKey = '8tPyzp4i1uF/ydAN1DqevdXDeVoryWRL'
```

### L. Back up all user databases, using mirrored backups

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@MirrorDirectory = 'D:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Compress = 'Y',
@Verify = 'Y',
@CleanupTime = 24,
@MirrorCleanupTime = 48
```

### M. Back up all user databases, using Data Domain Boost

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@Checksum = 'Y',
@BackupSoftware = 'DATA_DOMAIN_BOOST',
@DataDomainBoostHost = 'Host',
@DataDomainBoostUser = 'User',
@DataDomainBoostDevicePath = '/DevicePath',
@DataDomainBoostLockboxPath = 'C:\Program Files\DPSAPPS\common\lockbox',
@DataDomainBoostNoOutputTable = 'Y',
@CleanupTime = 24
```

### N. Back up all user databases, with the default directory structure and file names

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@DirectoryStructure = '{ServerName}${InstanceName}{DirectorySeparator}{DatabaseName}{DirectorySeparator}{BackupType}_{Partial}_{CopyOnly}',
@AvailabilityGroupDirectoryStructure = '{ClusterName}${AvailabilityGroupName}{DirectorySeparator}{DatabaseName}{DirectorySeparator}{BackupType}_{Partial}_{CopyOnly}',
@FileName = '{ServerName}${InstanceName}_{DatabaseName}_{BackupType}_{Partial}_{CopyOnly}_{Year}{Month}{Day}_{Hour}{Minute}{Second}_{FileNumber}.{FileExtension}',
@AvailabilityGroupFileName = '{ClusterName}${AvailabilityGroupName}_{DatabaseName}_{BackupType}_{Partial}_{CopyOnly}_{Year}{Month}{Day}_{Hour}{Minute}{Second}_{FileNumber}.{FileExtension}'
```

### O. Back up all user databases, to a directory structure without the server name, instance name, cluster name, and availability group name

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@DirectoryStructure = '{DatabaseName}{DirectorySeparator}{BackupType}_{Partial}_{CopyOnly}',
@AvailabilityGroupDirectoryStructure = '{DatabaseName}{DirectorySeparator}{BackupType}_{Partial}_{CopyOnly}'
```

### P. Back up all user databases, without creating any sub-directories

```sql
EXECUTE dbo.DatabaseBackup
@Databases = 'USER_DATABASES',
@Directory = 'C:\Backup',
@BackupType = 'FULL',
@DirectoryStructure = NULL,
@AvailabilityGroupDirectoryStructure = NULL
```

## Execution

You can execute the stored procedures from T-SQL job steps, and use [MaintenanceSolution.sql](/MaintenanceSolution.sql) to create the jobs.
